Okay, we got some stuff to look at this
morning. Um,
this week we pass
Ooh.
585 runs
above 825 score
to 845 as our threshold.
We have a lot of good runs here.
Uh that is pretty encouraging.
Okay.
Well,
I think we win, guys.
I think we just win.
So we have our own locals. Oh, this is
hugging faces.
Usually hugging faces engineering is not
great.
So um Adrian, have you seen
constellation?
I made this
has like instantaneous perf, thousands
of points. It's in C. It runs local. It
can run on web. I need to polish it up a
little bit so it looks a little cleaner.
Um, if we're going to consider four uh
850 the basically solve threshold, guys,
we have a 4.2 second solve.
That is absurd.
Uh, okay.
Well,
I guess it works.
How's 4.2 seconds sound to solve
breakout?
Now, we don't know if this repro is
right. Like, sometimes these get lucky,
but I think we definitely have. We got a
five or six second for sure.
And we can see kind of on the elbow here
that like yeah it's about six seconds
for these tons of stable solves and this
full full solves.
I mean this is still like absurd.
For context
the previous soda was right here.
So, all of our runs are now better than
the previous soda
in Puffer 3.
Okay, cool. Let me grab one thing, be
right back, and we will I will think
about what the hell to do about all
this.
This is nuts.
Look at this. Look at this result. Holy
crap.
And let's get this in the constellation
real quick.
Hey, Jess. Yeah, I'm trying to get to uh
I'm trying to get some stuff cranking
because I'm not streaming all day today.
After um like maybe 1 or 2 p.m. I got to
start on some client stuff. What have
you missed?
Sub5 second breakout solves.
When I started this update, it was like,
haha, maybe we can solve breakout in 10
seconds, but probably not. And now we're
at five.
So, uh, constellation the pre-processor
just grabbed the parto optimal points.
Wait, what?
Oh.
Uh,
that's 800 score in 3.5 seconds.
3.79 for 850. Holy, look at this. 3.79
seconds.
852. How many steps is this?
How is that 340 million steps in 3
seconds? That doesn't make sense.
Uh,
let's go see what on earth is happening
with that.
Actually, wait. No, this one has to stay
here.
Okay.
I think we need to copy like all the
params because I don't think this is
covering everything.
See if I can find it though. This is
45759.
Okay. Well, that doesn't train at all.
So, something must be different between
these two.
Why is the learning rate match
but the betas are totally different?
Where's Bet?
Huh?
Oh, you know what it is.
I know what it is. I'm uh I'm just
recording. There are a few of the
variables that get subtracted
uh that you get like one minus they get
recorded as one minus and then they
don't get written out back correctly.
That's fine.
Probably the alpha. Yeah. Look at this
file alpha.
That'll mess it up.
Okay, so that works. But that is a
7second solve.
So, how does this say that it's done in
Oh, because it's only 68 mil steps.
So, wait, how is this this is supposed
to solve in 50 mil? I think we just got
lucky. No,
Yeah, you see there's a bit of variance
on the F returns.
Hang on.
I bet we're doing some weird thing.
I bet that we are losing out on eval,
right?
Would be nice if we had this stuff all
deterministic.
I mean, that's definitely good and
stable.
Because we are definitely losing some
perf on eBels.
I'm surprised it really didn't do
anything crazy.
Well, did it actually
Hang on. Let's check before I say that.
No clipping.
I forget if this is full prior or pryo
disabled.
I'll have to check that. Lambda's super
low.
I mean, this is like a good step in the
right direction, though. Let's go fix up
Let's go fix up a couple of things.
Six.
So, three and a half hours.
Oh, four hours per sweep.
300 experiments per hour.
Hey, Muffin.
We uh we saw breakout in 5 seconds now.
Less if we're lucky.
Look at this graph.
Actually, let's not look at this graph.
This graph is ugly. Is ugly. Let's look
at this graph.
This is realistically this is the best
one here. 3.79 seconds. There's a little
bit of seed variance,
but like it's nowhere near the old RL's
totally cursed and jank. It's like maybe
I have to run it for plus or minus a
couple seconds.
Jung says he'll stop by as well to check
on sweep stuff. This totally works
though.
Oh, it's so close to being there, right?
Like,
okay, let's make the plan for today. So,
I only have I've got like four or five
hours tops to stream today because I got
some client work to start on. We uh we
finally we signed a big contract we've
been working on for a while. So, we've
got some business which is good, but I
have less time to stream, which is what
it is.
I think I would like to clean up I'd
like to clean up a couple things with
constellation so it's easier to repro
runs.
That should not take very long at all.
We're going to make sure that the
configs for the sweeps are good. We're
going to make this commit before I break
anything as well. So know what fiddly
sweeps are. We'll launch some new
experiments. And if I get all that done,
then uh
if I get all of that stuff done,
then I'll start cleaning up poor Puffer
Constellation. So, it's not exactly New
Muffin. I This was the first thing I
worked on for Puffer 4.
Like, I spent I don't know. I probably
spent a month not on that UI. I spent
like a month tech uh checking out
different things we could look at with
sweeps and whatnot and then a couple
weeks building this nice interface and
dashboard once I figured out what needed
to be vised. So it just needs to be
cleaned up for release pretty much. Um
this is going to be a major part though
of the release is having this dashboard
because this thing is in C. It's super
fast. You can load however much data you
want into it. Uh, and you can even run
it on web.
All right, let's go figure out Let's go
figure out constellation things. Yeah.
In Yeah. No, you're muffin.
Constellation's about 1500 lines of C at
the moment. Uh, I did clean it up
somewhat. It's still pretty messy, but
it's better than it would have been.
It's just like a whole big block of
procedural C that does all the
rendering.
It's actually not that tough to get like
reaccustomed to in some sense because
you just read it top to bottom and you
understand what's going on. There's not
like very much structure or anything to
it.
So, very nice work.
That's good.
The one thing that I spent like a few
extra hours on that was kind of silly,
but I'm kind of happy I did is this
shader that does like the twinkling star
effect.
So you have cost in seconds, you have
score. You can also do agent step which
is taking into account frame rate. Uh,
where's it? Frame skip rate.
And then what's this? The lowest is 140
mil.
Yeah, 140 mil.
Of course, we're not optimizing for low
um low step solve. If we were to
optimize for this, it would go way down.
But yeah, you've got cost, you've got
spore.
Um, you can also do like
where is it? Gamma versus score. It does
this inverse transform thing
or gamma. I don't know if I want to keep
that lambda.
It's pretty cool. Uh, I don't think it's
a it's not a full replacement in some
sense because it's not meant for
monitoring runs. So if you have like one
long run you want to monitor, it's not
great for that. And it also, at the
least at the moment, it doesn't plot
curves. It's mostly for aggregate
monitoring. So if you're going to run a
sweep and you want fast stats on a
sweep, then this thing will be way
faster and easier than wannabe.
I could also make this work for web very
easily.
Now I can basically make it so that you
just drag and drop your um your data
file from your sweep and uh to your
browser and it's very compact in the
format that we have and uh it'll just
plot everything.
I'm going to do that.
The the thing that's a little sketchy at
the moment, right? So I have like this
is gamma
and I did one minus gamma because now
you can do log x, right?
You can like log transform the x-axis.
Another one would be like what like
entropy.
Yes, you can like log transform the
x-axis here.
You can't really log
the xaxis
otherwise, right?
Hang on, folks. I just I've got analysis
paralysis here. I'm trying to think if I
want to spend my morning.
Okay, so here's here's the one issue at
the moment.
Um, I don't want to mentally get myself
too far off of the cleanup work for uh
the C++.
And I think that if I spend my morning
like doing the stuff for Constellation
to fully fix the copy feature and fix
like that, I think it will do that. So,
I think I'm going to have constellation
be the way it is and I'm going to work
on cleaning up puffer.
And then uh constellation is totally
fine. You can use it right now. The only
thing will be that the copy feature a
couple of the a couple of the parameters
that get copied get like one minus
transformed. Gamma gets one minus
transformed and stuff. So like you have
to edit a couple things. Um it doesn't
fully work because when I do this it
copies the run to my clipboard, all the
hypers. So it makes it super easy in
theory to repro runs. But I have a
couple bugs and those bugs are actually,
now that I'm thinking about it, I'm
going to have to redesign a couple
things a little bit. So, we'll save
that. Uh, we'll commit the current sweep
stuff. Uh, I'll clean things up in the
puffer sweeps today a little bit and
mainly in the Puffer C++
UI looks good. It looks way cooler when
you have multiple different environments
because it'll use different colors for
different ends and like you can filter
all environments so you can overlap them
and then this will give you hyperparam
sensitivity across M's. You get like
this cool plot here the 3D plot across
M. It looks really sweet.
Uh this is also like big big props to
Kyouung for the work that he did on uh
follow-ups to protein. So a lot of the
like pruning bad runs that stuff was all
Kung. So I made the base protein
algorithm but like the thing that
prevents it from wasting a ton of
compute
uh that's work.
And it's non-trivial as well.
Okay. So, first thing, let's figure out
what I want to do about this w logger
thing.
Yeah, he posts some stuff on X. He does
mostly robotics, but uh he's done a lot
of RL with us over the last few years.
on. Okay. Uh yeah, K
right here. KYWCH500.
Oh, Kung also did uh 2048 lately. He's
done a bunch of stuff.
I'm just trying to figure out how I want
to do the logger.
Um,
I think we'll keep the logger thing,
but let's just do
Let's do it this way.
We're just going to clean up and fuse
the logger together so it's nice and uh
clean. It's just will make one be
optional. We don't really need to have a
ton of different backends for it.
Um, for context guys, we are dropping
Neptune support in Puffer 4 because
OpenAI bought it and killed it. You
know, Open AI bought and and killed the
like free logging thing.
Just so we're clear on that uh that
dynamic, you know.
join.
Let's see.
Do we run? Let's just try sweep super
quick.
Okay, next thing.
Yeah, next thing.
Uh, there were two features missing.
There were two features missing.
Let me see how this works. So it's just
like DDP
does hook into anything that is an
optimizer. I wonder
Oh, okay. Cool. So then it should just
work.
I think I can just do it with this.
Is welcome.
Let's go find I have it in my docs,
right? The uh the distributed
it's just torch run now.
I figure we may as well cuz there only
like two features left I think that we
need for the release. One is DDP and the
other is continuous action space
support. I think that's all we're
missing.
Okay.
Policy
cuz we do not have load policy, right?
So just go
down here maybe.
So, this doesn't really fit here, does
it? But hang on.
Maybe it's easy.
So that's there. Next precision DDP sync
DDP join hook.
Okay, so most of this crap is for things
we don't use as usual.
Broad detach.
Broadcast. Coales
It is literally
Oh, shoot. I'm graphing the optimizer.
That's tough.
Yeah, shoot. I'm graphing the optimizer.
That's really bad.
I'm excited to get my code base into a
spot where it's less required to use
these stupid models.
You want to all reduce the entire
gradient buffer in one call
rather than per parameter.
This actually could be made so much
faster than torches. Holy [ __ ] If we do
this.
Hang on though. I have to figure out.
We can just do Yeah, this is easy.
No, actually this is really really good.
Hang on.
I don't actually feel too bad about
using like cuz essentially this is using
Claude to clean up Torch's mess, right?
So, we actually the way the back works
is pretty clean
for this already.
end processes or use threads with CUDA
visible devices.
uh pomegranate if you're new around
here. So my workflow is not really
heavily AI
in fact. So I've only really been using
this stuff in the last few weeks. I hate
it. I think it's generally awful. This
project specifically,
I'm essentially ripping out chunks of
Torch bit by bit and replacing them with
much simpler and faster raw CUDA and C.
So, uh, none of this stuff in torch is
documented. It's very difficult to sort
of do this chunk, but the goal of what
I'm doing here is ultimately we're going
to get something that's very short, very
simple, very easy for people to edit
without needing to heavily rely on these
models. Um,
but it's going to take some work in the
process. I'm not really looking to adopt
a heavier AI workflow.
I generally think it's the wrong
direction for engineering.
We need people thinking about problems
more deeply and at a lower level. And uh
these the heavy AI workflow pushes
people towards higher level not thinking
concretely about the details of the
problem that actually matter.
So to like to kind of narrate my thought
process here, right, we kind of already
have puffer. So that uh we are
collecting experience
independently on a bunch of different
CUDA streams
and the environments also all have their
own processes.
So that could very easily be altered to
just like pin one of those or multiple
of those to each GPU.
That should be pretty straightforward.
Uh they are writing to the same buffer.
I don't know if torch does any weird
locking crap. I don't think so. So I
think actually the eval loop
the eval loop should be pretty easy to
scale to multi-GPU which is really nice.
Now the train loop on the other hand is
a bit harder.
the train loop first of all it's not
fully cudographed
so it's like not easy to split that into
uh work for different GPUs. This
essentially actually all that gives you
as well hang on that gives you bigger
mini batches right
that's actually not amazing if we think
about it, right? Because what does this
give you? So the original way that we
did DDP in Puffer 3 was just uh the
torch wrapper and all that that does is
you uh run an all reduce when you
collect gradients. So that lets you use
bigger batch sizes. That's not super
helpful on its own, is it?
All right, I got to use the restroom.
Let me let me be back in a few minutes
here and we'll figure out how to do
this. The forward pass is going to rock.
I think the forward pass we are going to
like get perfect speed up and it's going
to be awesome. I don't know about the uh
the backward yet.
I'll be back.
Okay. So, I thought about it a little
bit. Um,
there's a simple way to do this and a
complicated way to do this. Uh the
complicated way is ultimately going to
end up being simpler, but I don't think
it's the right move while we still have
torch in the mix. So uh because
basically we can either just on the
outer loop launch a bunch of processes
and add an all reduce and be done or we
can essentially redesign the entire
thing to like manage all the processes.
I think that second one's going to be
better long term, but this is not the
time to add it because one, it'll take
quite a while to do that, and two, it's
not going to play nice with torch. But I
think that's what we do in a couple of
uh updates in the future.
Uh, hang on.
I think that works.
So, we basically just make our own way
easier to run.
It's right here.
Right. No, here.
It's after we compute all updates.
Zero's like weight buffer.
zero power via Newton Scholes.
this still has to get done on one GPU,
which is annoying.
rank path. Yeah.
So then train multiGPU
train rank
and then this calls train.
Uh, this is not quite correct.
No, it is.
Okay. We'll have to change it so to like
not log if there's no logger, I suppose.
This is not the best way of doing it.
Let's be clear. Um,
I think that this will be much faster
than Torches though. And also Torches is
not compatible anyways
because I looked at Torch. It has a
whole bunch of crap.
on the current stream as well.
And then this should just get graphed.
I'm trying to think what can go wrong
with this. I guess like cudggraphing.
The only thing I can see messing up with
this is cudigraphing being jank.
Oh yeah, we should also probably just
keep the top one on the main process.
Single GPU.
Uh what the heck?
Don't use this pattern.
Okay. So, Now we have rank zero will go
on the main process.
Not perfect code
but pretty close.
I'll have to clean it up a little bit.
If this adds a 100 lines for multiGPU
and actually we'll get to delete some of
the old torch jank from this as well
like all the disc gather stuff on logs.
We'll get to delete
Let's see if we can fake it on um if we
can fake it on one GPU.
Okay. So, we don't actually know whether
this does anything is the problem. Um,
since this is just on rank one
We'll just undo it after a quick task
because I don't think it's doing I
actually don't know if it's doing the uh
the all reduce right now. I would think
it probably isn't
because the world size is one.
I mean, hopefully this should not this
really should not be that complicated.
It's kind of funny.
Yeah. And I guess the way that we test
this is if I just do um
affirm one
launch video.
So this should give us four
subprocesses, right? Oops.
I think I am. Unfortunately, I'm going
to have to set this up on one of the
multiGPU boxes to test this.
Oh, wait. No, hang on.
I think I'm just dumb and did it wrong.
initialized in the parent before
forking. Yes.
required.
Okay, that's annoying to set this to
spawn.
The reason this is annoying is spawn
takes like way longer to start up.
Each process will think it only has size
zero, but they're in difficult physical
devices. We need set device start fresh.
Am I crazy for thinking that this is
just going to get to be like way way way
easier
um
as soon as we don't have like Forge and
Python in the loop?
I don't think that's crazy. I think it's
going to just be way easier.
Oh, okay. Fake GPS is true. Fine. Forgot
the flag. No biggie.
presumably the stats here are wrong,
right?
Is there any way around the fact that
we're getting a quarter of the log data?
I think this is about the limit of what
we should be doing with Claude. The rest
should be me.
streaming on any category. So, here's
the annoying thing, and I've got to
switch me my I got to switch my stream
software. I got to take some time to do
this at some point. There's not a way
for me to set my stream category uh on
Twitch
from Reream.
I mean, realistically, I just have to
get a day where I'm not like exhausted
from all the stuff I've been working on
and just like spend some time doing some
admin stuff, fixing up stream, you know,
doing all the other little things I
ignore.
Where's train logic
here?
Right.
Okay. Lovely. So, we get to just delete
this entirely.
to delete this entirely.
train args rank
end of name rank world size
Oh, because it's using this load config
end name
because it's a multipprocess thing.
Yeah.
No, I see why it's done this way. It's
fine.
Yeah, we can merge all this crap, can't
we?
So like this
can go here.
Then this takes
Actually,
I see why it's like this. Name
none
back end policy. This stuff does not get
passed anymore.
Uh logger none.
is uh this function
now does everything
and then all we have to do here. So this
is
which can take same sig pretty much
Okay.
logger is going to be none
rank zero on main process.
Oh no, that's pro that is a problem
because it'll make
This is train.
This is train
there. You know, it's kind of funny
where all these things that are supposed
to be super difficult in magic are only
super difficult in magic because of
garbage engineering. like you basically
just need one low-level primitive which
is an all reduce
and
like it's kind of trivial on top of that
like the whole stack of other crap is
like what what on earth obviously with
big models there's more engineering but
the fact that just the entry point to
doing anything
uh is so high is ridiculous there's no
need for
point
rank.
Oh,
name
worker ars.
Go away clock. Like, come on. We don't
need clo for this crap.
This is like it's so tempting to overuse
it.
All right, look at that. So, that now
runs.
Yeah. So, we sort of have to divide up
the mini batches and stuff.
Oh, you don't have Wait, you do have
this, right?
Yes, I might. Yeah, this is fine. So
mini batch size gets divided
ve num n it's total agents
agents
yeah
and then I believe
we pass logger
self. Global step
config
That's fine. Right.
I think that's it.
This is now gone.
N type object.
No attribute run ID.
And I think a little bit more of this
can get moved out as well.
Yeah. And then the rest of this is just
me having to move stuff out of
uh the log.
Right.
Yeah. The rest is me just having to move
stuff out of here.
Evaluate does not get merged.
So we can just put this. I think it's
literally as simple as doing this.
train rank join.
And then we just do the final email.
Do we ever do anything with all logs? We
don't, right?
I just do this
now.
Yeah, the eval is actually going to be
kind of bad.
Think of it.
Yeah, all the time going into eval as
well means we probably just have way too
many buffers,
C.Profiler.
Stop.
Okay. So, we get all these done.
Done. Done. Done.
Figure out what the hell's going on
here.
Interesting.
So, this one should be done, right?
Train rank.
Just got to be stuck on the joint.
Yeah, it doesn't have the clothes. I'm
dumb.
Hang on.
train like this
and then
so this is now final eval.
And now we have made this thing
I don't know what it would be stuck on
though.
Oh, actually we don't want to do this
final eval like this, right?
Yeah, we do actually just want to use
the train perf. Okay, I remembered why.
Yeah, this is going to be jank. We tried
this before. This is super jank. You
have to evaluate way longer if you do it
this way.
This is not a bad thing to be doing
today though. MultiGPU is a really big
feature.
It's not diff it's not that difficult
actually. It really isn't.
Let me go grab myself a mug of tea and
we'll continue. All right. I'll be back
in a few.
All right, give me one second and we'll
fix this.
Yep. All right.
So,
um, we got this actually working, which
is pretty good. I guess technically
there could be some bugs when we
actually go to use uh multiple devices,
but probably is okay.
It's pretty simple.
The nice thing with Popper Constellation
is you don't even screw up your logs by
having bad runs in there because it just
filters out to Purto points anyways.
Okay, that's clean.
That is clean.
Uh it is actually slightly worse
perfwise.
Advantages are going to be kept
different.
We can fix that. It's not hard.
We can fix that.
What do we think about this?
This is good.
I think it's good.
Now,
we do have this numbum threads problem
thing, right?
Yeah. Because basically this num threads
has to get split
and presumably you're using one thread
per Four.
Well, we wanted to be able to sweep this
thing potentially anyways.
So, real quick, we can try
uh dividing threads by GPUs.
Don't know if that's quite how we want
to do it.
buffer. I think num buffers is is it
four that's two two buffer should be
okay
Um,
it's not GPS train. GPU is one.
Yeah. So, that's that is better. So,
there is a slight difference.
Oh, are we still fast? Hang on. Are we
still fast?
We're not expecting this to be faster.
Keep in mind, so this is one this is a
one GPU machine.
Yeah. So, this is basically just setting
shitty ARS. Okay, we're good.
So presumably they should still be
logging stuff. Yes.
Okay. So, I mean, we'll have to test
this multiGPU, but this is pretty much
fine.
I think this is a decent chunk of stuff
to commit.
Okay. So, I mean there's some like
little design decisions that are easy
enough to make, but that is one of two
remaining features that we had uh not
implemented.
Now the other one we want to have it's
continuous.
I see. So what's this do that we have
normal distribution?
Oh, this is very gank actually
How difficult is that?
That is kind of annoying, right? Because
now the value function has
This is another cloth thing, but it's
just not a stupid clo thing. This like I
don't auto this. So this is going to be
No, cuz you just get the mean and then
the log standard deviation is not
learned.
Why is my tea not teeing?
There's a sentence.
Okay. So, this is just like you add log
standard dev
The output kernel
will have a different shape.
Oh, this actually makes it easy for us
to do mixed, continuous, and discreet,
which is pretty cool, I think.
Yes, it does.
Okay, I think I can actually just have
Claude do this if I'm very precise about
exactly.
So I think I have the rough outline in
my head, but this is not enough. I need
to know exactly what this should look
like.
if the action size is one,
you assume it's continuous.
You just assert that they're all either
zeros or ones or not.
If they're continuous. You add the
decoder like this
and
Okay. It's kind of a pain, but I'm at
least confident we can do this without
breaking it.
I think this is the last major thing
though that I need for maybe some still
refactors actually.
And there's just so much torch crap.
Like this would be so simple
and see just see who to see.
Hang on, let me make sure I get this
correct.
Yeah, you don't need the sample.
what is the log prop of a normal
distribution?
I think that's precise enough to prevent
stupid [ __ ]
And there's going to be so much manual
cleanup for this update.
Uh
are there any other features I'm
forgetting? Continuous
support.
I think there's some bindings to be
exposed and stuff, but other than that,
I think that would be feature complete.
Continuous action support,
constellation,
anything. It's feature complete and we
just need to clean stuff up for the most
part.
A few default networks haven't been
ported.
So, that would be nice. I got about like
twoish hours to stream before I got to
go work on client stuff, I think, now.
So, uh hopefully we have this done.
We'll be able to test this by just
training the drone ends
The agents that we are training are um
like tiny superhuman models. They run at
millions of t like they run at millions
of steps per second.
That's annoying though to have that.
Let's just say one decoder.
Yeah. So,
we keep one decoder.
We deal with the potentially undefined
log props item if we need to. Or was it
log standard deviation item?
This adds a little bit to the sample
path and torch and the loss path and
torch.
I don't like that. No, I don't like that
at all.
catch slow.
You can't just throw in a random torch
off. See, this is why torch is bad. It's
just like, oh yeah, we can just concat
it and then return it for convenience.
It's like, no, it's not how computer
works.
Yeah. So these encoders are now going to
be stupid, but
we can do it this way for now.
At the very least, I don't think we've
broken anything yet.
Yeah. See, this is going to have
cascading annoying [ __ ] just to handle
continuous.
I don't know how much we even care about
the uh Well, I guess we need it for now.
Okay. So now this is where um
this is where things can go bad.
See what's done. Logit.
This is fine. It just added
one. Yep.
this block here, right?
This is fine.
Okay.
You pass is continuous.
This is a fine launch function update. I
mean the fine module update.
Very small header update. This is why
you This is why the models are basically
mandatory here. You see like the amount
of redundant crap. Look, there's another
one
K normal
and state. Oh,
let me go look at this.
Entropy is not helped here.
Entropy is not kept here.
Discrete sampling should be the same.
Yeah. So, just this looks like a big
scary div, but it's just the dip tool
being shitty. Uh, you're going to see
watch watch what happens when I hit yes
here.
There's all our code from before.
There's the new path.
Not bad, right?
And this won't slow anything down
because this path like this path will
never get triggered. So there's actually
no branching.
It could only ever be one path.
So at the very least this should not
screw up
our training and I think it's likely
this will be correct for continuous. Now
I am still worried about two things. Uh
I'm worried about
I'm somewhat worried about the strides
though. Actually the way that this is
done
I think it's not too bad. I think this
is like actually pretty simple for
stripes. And then the other thing is
going to be the loss kernel
because the loss kernel basically has to
do the same thing.
Yeah.
Hey, don't worry. I'm not shipping like
8,000 lines of garbage. We will have to
clean all this stuff up.
It's a bit annoying though. Silly.
Okay. Yeah. So, that did update. I don't
know if it updated the launch functions.
Did it?
It did.
Yeah, that updated loss function.
Yeah. So, it's just restoring all
actions as double. That's fine.
It's fine.
Okay. So, let's actually look at this.
So we are adding
log standard deviation and we're
changing the type.
Uh so we're just going to assume that
that's going to be cached cleanly which
it will be
half log pi. Yeah. So here we have
Oh no, it's the log. Okay.
So,
this is leaving everything else as is,
right?
Puffer fish playing League of Legends.
Could happen.
The thing the main thing with that So,
it the main thing with that is that the
game itself is slow, right?
But probably not that slow actually. I
think of the big games that would
probably be one of the easier ones
uh to throw it at. I We do have this
thing which is our own little MOA.
It's based on Dota. Obviously simplified
because I didn't just go reimplement all
of Dota. Um but it's got 5v5. It's got
actual creeps, reasonable pathing. Like
it's got some unique abilities per
character. It's got towers. It's got
like the key mobile elements and this
thing you can train like reasonable
stuff quite quickly.
Okay, let's see. This should just add
one path, right? Yeah. So, this code is
unchanged
and then
it's this. Okay. So, we'll have to check
this math.
But this is about what I would expect.
Yes,
this is sick. Yeah, we have a I mean we
have a whole bunch of M's,
right? I mean, the key thing with Puffer
is we can literally train millions of
steps per second. In fact, we're at 14
million uh for some of our M's in this
latest dev version,
and that's on single GPU.
So
that for context like that means if
we're just playing something simple like
Breakout, it's playing something between
three and four months worth of Breakout
games every second of training.
It's just an absurd absurd amount of
data.
What the hell's happening here?
Any comment on this?
Oh, this is the backward kernel, right?
Um,
yeah. So, it's not going to break it
because this is the same code being
moved down. But I think this is safe
because
um it's just going to give one different
path, right? Which is right here for the
backwards pass.
Okay. It literally just copy pasted the
entire code which is kind of silly.
If this works, It's actually kind of
impressive.
To be fair, it's trained on like var
like several variations of this exact
code. So
Okay, this is just the launch function.
This is fine.
The only thing we have to now be careful
is that the buffers in the main training
code for actions now need to be double
which is safe because double contains
int uh in32
and float.
I actually don't know why I didn't do
that to begin with.
I definitely should have.
Now, the one thing that's going to suck
is if this math is wrong on continuous,
um,
it's not going to be fun because
it gets duplicated
in several spots. Now actually we will
be able to test this somewhat because
uh we also have the pure PyTorch
pathway.
So we will be able to debug this by
testing if continuous is stable with uh
the native not PyTorch lib torch path.
We'll be able to test that. So we do
have verifiability on many levels.
It's not a significant change. That's a
very simple change.
The the actually the only complicated
piece of this that I'm worried about is
the kernel changes. Everything else is
just like bloat from torch.
So pretty much the only things that were
actually mattering and we could very
easily strip out a few chunks of this uh
into inline functions and we can make
the kernel substantially shorter.
In fact, we should probably do that.
This the right colonel.
Yes.
Now, the painful thing is if this does
work, uh, this will mean that our
release is feature complete, but a mess.
And we have about 3,000 lines of
kernels, uh, I think 2,000 lines of
module binds, and 1500 lines worth of
torch C++, and like 3,000 lines worth of
kernel tests. So, we have a just huge
amount of crap that needs to be cleaned
up,
which is entirely my fault.
Well, mostly my fault to be fair. A lot
of it is just torch bloat,
but I think we can at least do a fair
bit better than we have it now.
What is going on here?
All right, this is just getting moved.
And let's not me let's not mess this up.
Train forward call.
Okay. Okay. Right. So this is just in
the non kernel path.
So, this adds a whole bunch of crap. Um,
a lot of this can be cleaned up.
Let's see if we can have it work first.
The result is very good.
The um
I think what we're going to end up
having to do is like go quantify how
much of the bloat is coming from
different sources and like what we can
cut out. Yeah. So the biggest change
right is right there. Uh that is the
actions going to float 64. I actually
don't know why I had them in in N64
before though because they should be uh
they totally should be in float 64
cast actions doubles in the colonel.
Yes. So that's the other thing right
there the cast. So that the action type
is correct.
That is if so I think that if we broke
discrete training it will be because of
that that is a very easy thing for us to
find.
Um
break out.
Wait.
And it will be does this build first?
Okay, it does.
Does it train discrete?
Tensor does not have a device
Oh, that could just be the empty tensors
or whatever.
It's going to like treat that as a
string.
Okay, now we get a different error.
I actually don't know what tensure that
would be. It has object. So
but I would probably say like fused was
it po loss
I see. So, it needs to just have the um
the placeholder tensor
beyond device,
which is fine.
That's fine.
And hopefully now we have our discrete
training working again.
We should not have any sort of speed
drop.
A better error message out of the stupid
thing.
See, we can't get a better error out of
this. It's very, very irritating. Um,
well, we do have
it is in the loss, uh, the optimized
loss.
It's in the forward function of that
See,
this is just torch. There's like nothing
really to write home about. That's just
torch giant.
Okay, it runs right. Get set up
one more time.
There's your stupidly fast solve.
Yeah.
Um,
now we just need a continuous amp to
play with.
Did we ever do drone?
num agents
we have ve total agents should be
what's that 16 by 64
* 64 * 8
1564.
Oh, it is 8192. That's so that's totally
fine.
We do have numb agents. We have max
rings
chest zero engine.
So, I mean, what we're trying to do is
we're explicitly just trying to do chess
without search.
Alpha Z but better.
That's cool. Um
embedding synonyms are slow. Yeah, I
mean you can go look at the embeddings
that they use J and see which which you
can make fast.
I don't really care if you have to steal
like encoders as long as you can get
them fast. It's mainly the third trunk
is what we want to not have to deal
with.
Okay, so we have this working. What is
the easiest way for us to just figure
out real quick?
Maybe
we should just be able to like stack
price.
Num agents.
We do have num agents.
What's in it do?
Assigns agents. Assigns
ring buffer.
Doesn't attempt to reset. This is
correct.
Oh, wait. Ocean drone binding.h H. It's
the H file.
Oh, but it's still the same thing.
OB size is 26.
is four, right?
Did you change num ms to num agents? Uh,
no. So M's have a num agents
and there's vec total agents. Now
terminology subject to change until end
of 40. Things need to be cleaned up a
lot though Jess.
It's just like because the new ve back
end
it works a bit differently
I don't know. There's just so much stuff
to finish, Jess. It's a lot.
It's really a lot.
The render is not included. This is
good.
Doesn't this get a task?
Does this have all the tasks?
This has
this has all the tasks
agents
which is our default. So we don't need
it actually.
Anything else weird we're doing?
These are dated.
I don't think there's anything else
weird.
said that he got me a nice debug uh a
nice debug PR. So, I'm going to just go
grab that.
I'm not signed into this tab. Hang on.
Bruce got me a nice um
nice debug PR.
Oh, okay. That's annoying. That's bigger
than uh I can just do real quick.
mostly nams.
How'd that happen?
And why does this dude have nan
nan state?
That actually looks like numerical screw
up, doesn't it?
Just real quick, let's just make sure
it's not some utterly stupid name
collision thing.
I mean, that would just be embarrassing,
right?
Oh, you know what it could totally be
though? It could totally be bad actions.
That's probably what it is in fact,
right?
Okay. So, it's just randomly some
actions. Man,
what's this supposed to get clipped to
Yeah. Everywhere. Let me clean this up.
You're good.
Yeah, we definitely want action clipping
to occur
in the policy
because we should have it such that you
can never give the environment an
invalid action.
I think that is better than having the
environments be responsible for it.
Play a blitz game against her chess bot
for move ahead tactics and planning.
Punish me when I give it a mistake.
That's really solid.
Play some more games seriousness and
report back. Looking for embeddings
sooner with embeddings for CNN. That is
awesome. Hey, this all sounds like good
progress, Jess.
This all sounds like good progress.
Okay, it runs. It doesn't say fault,
right?
Let's now go um
Do we have any other environments that
we can use as a quick continuous test?
Carpool's being jank. I don't want to
use that.
I mean, we don't have a ton of
continuous stuff, do we?
Drone is really the main one.
We do use drone continuous, right? Yeah,
we do.
But this definitely trains in proper
three, right?
Yeah,
it's not it's not particularly fast and
it's also not training correctly.
Something's wrong.
2.3 ml on my local machine,
which is substantially worse.
And it's basically going to start
improving instantly.
Yeah. So this starts improving
in like a few seconds
and it's very stable.
Okay.
First of all, why is it slow?
Being slow on puffer 4 is very weird.
It's all in the forward pass.
We have cudigraphs off. They should be
on, but it should still be faster even
with cudigraphs off.
num threads
16 threads.
Uh we do have total agents wrong.
Okay, so we are still slow.
Doesn't make much sense.
We shouldn't be end of bound. And even
if we are, shouldn't be this slow.
set.
No
build.
Don't have like a weird debug build,
right?
Huh?
We'll definitely have to figure this one
out. Now, more importantly though, why
is it not even training?
Okay. Well, we have some stuff we can
try, right?
False. No kernels.
False.
Nope. I don't see any hypers that would
mess with this.
It's a little irritating.
Um
cuz we we do not have confirmation on
this end. It's the one problem.
Where can I play the chess bot?
Uh, we think the chess bots's what
between like 1,100 and500
at this point.
It's in dev.
You can probably set up one of the repos
for it, like one of their forks.
Okay. So we can confirm square does not
train right.
how's it going?
You have gotten us something pretty
awesome, man.
Check this out. Oops.
Where' Constellation go? Oh
Not at all. I actually I'm trying to get
this [ __ ] out of my workflow.
The problem is that we have we've
inherited several thousand lines of jank
from Torch and it's really difficult to
edit manually because everything is
super redundant. So my goal is to like
automated refactor stuff to a point
where it's human editable again and then
not have to use the model. Yeah. So
Kyouong I had to port I had to like
update some small things uh to get it on
to 40 It looks pretty good. Now, the one
thing I'm not sure is I checked a run
like pretty far through and it didn't
look like it was using the robust log
cost model. Uh I think it can go even
faster
because like
like I think it should be able to even
go faster than this. I don't know why it
would have any experiments out at 30
seconds frankly with like a linear cost
model.
63.
I guess it's like splitting hairs. No,
cuz it's already max score at 864. So,
it's it's actually impossible that it
got a higher score than this. And it's
still running stuff out to here.
Kind of weird.
Far fewer yet. Well, this is not all the
experiments. So, um, constellation only
grabs Parto optimal points. These are
all the experiments. This is a 1200 one
uh a 1200 run sweep. So, you know, with
1200 we would expect it to be very
optimized.
Opus 46. Honestly, I don't really care.
So, probably this is like the highest
quality one which is a 6.2 two second
full full solve.
But then like realistically anything
above 850 is basically a solve. So like
um
4.5 second solve.
This 4.2 second solve, right?
Not to go too aggressive. Yeah, I think
it's okay in that case. The thing that
was weird to me is um like the startup
runs but then
the only thing I I think that you
replied that there is a cut off
hang on cost random suggestion.
Yeah. So here's the thing that I wasn't
sure about. Right. So,
if I understand this correctly from your
message here, the first several runs
you're using random parameters, which is
fine. Uh, but then you're using the cost
model to prune out suggestions that
should be too long, but like the cost
model isn't trained reasonably yet. So,
it can just be running really
obnoxiously long stuff for no reason,
right?
So, I don't think this is about it being
aggressive or not. I think this is like
the uh the startup runs are not being
clipped appropriately. I'm pretty sure.
Obviously, I'm going to have to run more
of these sweeps uh in order to tell
not prune out. So, just set the main
training steps.
I don't know what you mean by that.
if default training steps is too large
the mean and norm. So the default
training step, it runs in like 7 seconds
is the thing.
But you know, if you go and you take the
default training step and you crank up
the network size and you crank down the
number of agents, you can very easily
sample stuff around that mean that's
going to be really slow.
It's the defaults, right? I mean, look,
yes, I can limit total time steps. I'm a
bit confused, though, because I thought
that it was I thought in the new
version, we didn't really have to limit
the total time steps.
Uh, I did tighten it, and I think that's
one of the reasons that it worked.
Yeah. See, I limited it to 288 max, so
it can't go crazy long, but it's still
like
it's still fairly long. And I mean, you
can tell when you start a new run that
like it's like kind of it feels bad
because you see that it'll run like a
7-second experiment that solves the end
and then it'll go and run a whole bunch
of like 20 30 second experiments,
experiments several times longer that
don't learn anything.
Cost is determined by sweep range. But
by sweep range, you just mean like
whatever happens to sample around the
mean, right? in the normalized space.
That's a really big range because that's
there are many parameters, right, that
influence the cost. It's not just time
steps.
It can be the model size, the width, the
number of layers. Let's talk.
Let's do that. That's easier.
Let's get
>> Hey Joseph.
>> Hey John. How's it going?
>> Good. Good. Finally, sweep is happening,
huh?
>> Yeah, sweeps it. It's already improved,
right? Like, it's gone. It's taken us
down from 7 seconds to like six, five or
six. Um, I think we can
>> Nice 10xing.
>> Yeah,
>> literally 10xing the speed.
>> Yeah. Well, I think it can even do
better. It's just I'm a little confused.
So, this is I think a little more minor.
It's just some pruning stuff. Um,
>> no.
>> I I don't know. Some part of me just I
think that we can go faster than this.
And the reason for that is like it's
still running it's still running configs
that are pretty close to what I started
with. I haven't fully looked yet, but
like if I go look at Hang on.
Can I go look at like um what is this
mini batch? Let's do vacc num
total.
The wand's UI is so bad.
>> Now you're replacing it.
>> Yeah, that's literally why I'm replacing
it. It's almost unusable.
I mean, I guess it is running it's
running a bunch of experiments. I guess
I'm like I'm suspecting that it should
be able to find some stuff that should
be better with like fewer agents and
smaller mi batch and stuff maybe because
>> maybe not. I don't know. Um like the
curve should be better essentially. So
puffer should be scaling better uh on
smaller mini batches and stuff now. Like
it should not you should actually be
even faster with that. We also have a
bunch of other pars. So, I want to make
sure we're fully sweeping correctly. Um,
and I went through some of the sweeps
code. The robust log cost model looked
good. Uh, I didn't know if there was
anything else weird going on though, and
I want to make sure that we have like
the full sweep stuff in 40. I also, it's
a little annoying because I don't have
all the M's to test with yet, right? Uh,
so there's still that, but like I'm kind
of surprised that we didn't get a
dramatically different network size or
like dramatically different batch or
anything out of this.
>> But a breakout is like a swept to death,
right?
>> So
>> no wonder except but like it's different
in puffer 4 because contexts that used
to be too slow. So for instance, before
if you cut the mini batch size in half,
uh it would train like the same speed
pretty much because of the overhead.
Puffer is so much lower overhead now
that there's a very wide range of
configs that used to be inefficient that
are now efficient.
>> So So okay, so let's focus on the first
run uh first 10 runs. So, so that's
where I I set the cost random suggestion
and uh so I in the discord I put that
like hyperparameter search centers which
we removed from default but it's it's
the like the mean.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh the the search center is the like a
zero in like a minus one to one space,
right? So, so when training steps is
like that like 10 billion and the max is
10 billion the minimum is like let's say
100 million then the like the mean in
the nome space will be like uh like
billionish right so so so that's where
like uh when we use the search center
for the first 10 runs that that's where
like the first tendons will get like uh
pretty long like unnecessarily.
>> Yeah.
>> So, so that's why I suggested probably
instead of search center let's set it to
minus.5
or like 7ish.
So how how the uh sweep is
>> why can't we just use the log like we
can't just use the
>> I guess we can't just use the log cost
model on the default no
>> so log cost model also needs some data
to run right so like the the first few
suggestion will be jank
>> can we not get like any sort of
reasonable bound out of it because it's
like here it's pretty silly that we see
look. So if I change this to be created
time step and score
okay I can't actually tell where I
started the sweep.
Oh I see what's wrong. It's cuz I have
it filtered to only the good runs.
Okay, so now they're 1,200 points. And
now Wannabe is totally going to just
die.
Okay, if I do created time stamp, I
remember basically seeing that.
Yeah, there are a bunch of like bad runs
early obviously, but then if we look at
the created time stamp versus up time, I
think they take like they spend quite a
while.
Yeah, like there are a lot of these
early runs that don't do well that are
like three or four times longer than the
initial run. And presumably, right, if I
set the the uh range even longer, like
these runs could be very long.
Yeah. Yeah. So, so that's where I think
uh just setting the lowering the cost
random suggestion to like minus.5 or
minus.7
>> random. Wait, the cost random
suggestion.
>> So yeah, I I put that on the like
snippet on discord.
>> Yeah, I don't I don't understand this
code because this is using the cost
model, right?
No, it's not for for first 10 runs. It's
not.
>> Then how is it estimating it?
>> It's not estimating it. Wait. Suggestion
of
cost random suggestion.
I Yeah, I don't understand how this
works then. Um
>> So, so it's it's not estimating
anything. So, so, so right now what it's
doing is we set the uh the sweep uh
range,
>> right?
And then the search centers
is just determined by that like a min
and max of the sweep range.
>> Yeah.
which is like does and like and it's the
search range like min and max is nomed
>> and then the search center is just zero
of that.
>> Mhm.
>> So so when then the like train the the
range max is ridiculously high.
>> Yeah.
>> Then that like cost random suggestion
the training steps going there will be
high. So, so that's like where we will
get for first 10 runs we can get like a
userously wrong training sessions.
But I don't see how this limits it
because this is cost suggestion. This is
just like making up some random cost,
right?
>> Uh yes. So, so but it's in the normed
space.
>> Mhm.
>> So, it's around zero. So when I keep
saying when the like max is set to high
those will end up like getting high
like training steps.
So, so that
>> Yeah, I'm not I'm just not I'm not
getting this because
>> because like the reason that we have so
the way we use the cost we use the cost
with the GP model normally but there's
no GP model it's just this soable thing
right
>> uh for first 10 runs
when we don't have enough data
>> yeah so the first 10 runs. So this is
self dot. So this is like random around
the mean
around the mean params
>> and that's going to be scaled by to the
mins and maxes.
>> Yes.
>> And then I I don't know what this cost
this class suggestion is just random.
This doesn't actually get used for
anything, right?
>> Uh
yes. So we are just replacing it with
the set default just like because
otherwise like the suggested cost will
be ridiculous. So I'm trying to make it
around zero. But then in even in that
case if like the the the sweep range the
sweep max for training steps is too high
and the like the zero in domed space
will be like a huge too. So
>> so this seems bad because like it my
understanding of what this thing does is
it runs the first run and then it does
some fixed set of random suggestions
around the means of that first thing.
But depending on how the norms are like
the mins and maxes of that space are
set, this can just be suggesting
stupidly long experiments and then it
will run them with no pruning.
Uh yes, for 10 for first 10 runs.
>> Yeah, this does not seem good because
there are a few reasons this does not
seem good, right? So we have this nice
effective pruning after this. Um, we
can't set the max time steps too high
with this like because it will just
suggest the first several runs. It can
just have them be ridiculously long.
Like without this, I could just set the
max to be 100 billion if I wanted to and
it will just prune them. Um, with this
one, I have to actually be careful and
set reasonable per environment step
limits, which does not seem good. Um, so
this kind of like forces us to do
uh experiment length sweep range
settings per environment where I don't
think we should need them. I think we
should just be able to use that robust
blog cost model because that should
work. I I'm trying to think is there
some simple pruning we can just do.
>> Can we just do like some simple
conservative pruning on this or no?
So like for first few runs like we don't
have enough data to make good guesses
anyway. So we will have to rely on some
I
guess the assumption here is that well I
guess you're assuming that you don't
have any sort of reasonable initial
hypers.
Uh and and the one we are using for the
first run uh like which use is set the
default
>> is already like training for so long
like like one let's say for like 2048
like the the first run uh will run for
six billion steps because it has been
swift already. So if we are using that
as a reference and put some random
params then it will just create like
unnecessary wrong training with bad
params.
>> I don't understand why we can't just use
where where you sent me the log cost
model, right? Where's the log cost model
PR?
>> I don't see why we can't just use that
already even off of the first run.
So that is also like a fitting a model
on its own.
>> It's a very simple model though, right?
Like can't we just do
you can't get this out of just the first
run?
okay. Can we do some like stupider thing
like for this dark?
I mean, you see the problem, right? This
is not just wasting a little compute on
the first 10 runs. This messes up our
ability to have wide sweep settings um
because of the first 10 runs.
So this a gausian process model
will just make some stupid guesses and
say first 30 to 50
>> uh runs. Yeah. No, I agree. Okay. Um
I mean the GP is basically going to do
the exact same thing uh as we have here,
right? Like it's not it's basically
going to produce random noise. Um I this
I don't I agree that I don't think you
can get better suggestions
uh at the start.
This is super obnoxious though.
>> Uh
yeah and let let me see again. So like
so like the thing we can do at least is
like the minimize the damage right. So
one is just like a cut the sessions when
training goes nowhere like processing
ns.
>> Yeah. But we're not
>> well so nams is one thing. It can just
be zero like it doesn't have to diverge
to be bad. It can just be zero or very
low.
>> Then another is just like assume that
like first few runs will be bad and just
limit the cost manually. And that's what
I was like trying to do over there. Just
like uh just set the the cost the
training steps uh like a manually in the
like lower range.
>> So
>> well training steps is only one of the
things that can make her run slow.
>> So do like do you see the issue here?
Right. So like so imag like we take 2048
we do a six billion step run right
>> like
we should just be pruning stuff that is
nowhere near as good like relatively
early I suppose. No
and here my thinking was well if we are
just like doing 200 300 billion steps
then parameters can be like random. So
>> yeah,
>> like
>> well it depends on the ends, right? Like
but yes, assuming that the M's are at
least reasonably fast.
>> Yeah,
that's a big assumption too. Yes,
I mean it's just annoying that like
I guess there is also saving and loading
and stuff, but um like let's say that we
have a run that we have to seed it with.
Like we seed with our best hypers and we
run a several hour experiment.
>> Like
>> we don't want to be running a bunch of
random stuff for several hours, right?
We want to be pruning stuff that doesn't
have any like that's I mean we can be
conservative with it in the sense that
like
we can say that runs that are a bit
worse maybe maybe they get better later
on, right? We don't know the shapes of
the curves
>> which is the point of the quantile.
Yep.
>> I guess basically I just want the
quantile to work before we have data,
right?
>> You're greedy.
>> I'm kind of Why can't we do this though?
Like I actually don't understand why we
can't do this. Like we get five or 10
data points or we can even get more if
we want, right? We get the entire
training curve for the first experiment.
Why can't we use like some conservative
version of that quantile for that?
So, so for that yes we are getting let's
say 10 like data points from the first
run but like it's just like one data
point for each cost like estimate right
we are we are getting a curve but like
for each data point
>> but like can't I if I just draw is it
not like
you're getting this
And you're telling me that you need more
data in order to draw something that
looks like this?
Like
that's all you have to do is draw
something that looks like this.
>> This will prune everything
>> and you're telling me that you can't get
this fit.
Uh so so there now like uh what we can
do similarly is we can just use that
curve and multiply by like a point like
a three or something and just use that
as like a hard threshold.
>> That's fine. But that'll catch most of
the errors
>> that catches like that catches most
problems.
Okay. So,
>> we also we're getting to to the point
where this is very uristic and annoying
and you can come up with a bunch of dumb
edge cases. So like
I think we need to have this like we
definitely need to have this be simple
um so that we can understand what's
going on but like we do need to patch
the current edge case in some sense
because like it's wasting like I think
we can cut the time of the sweeps in
half honestly.
>> Yeah. Like uh so now like you are you
are now like uh coming to like what I
thought like months before like
wait like the the original sweep was
like uh wasting so much.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Compute on going nowhere. So like the
like these are two or three huristics I
added. Yes.
>> And we don't want to go too aggressive
but now you are seeing this and
Let's cut some more fat, right?
>> Yeah,
>> that's great.
>> Well, because I think that we can get it
down to be
>> like we can probably get like the 300
like a 300 experiment sweep in an hour.
>> really fast.
>> Technically, yes. But like compared to
before, I think it's already like uh
four like three times faster.
>> But like, hey, look, now I really want
it to be fast cuz I've just spent the
last three months of my life optimizing
the training. So now I don't want the to
be slow, right?
>> Yeah. So like that's like that's why I
did this. But
>> but
>> I think I basically I'm thinking here,
okay, let's say we get 300 experiments
per hour. Uh, it's perfectly parallel.
We can do it multiGPU.
I have six GPUs, 1,800 experiments an
hour. So, you can just like exhaustively
sweep uh an NV in one hour on a one six
GPU box.
So, so yeah, I I think
yeah, let's let's go a little bit
aggressive and just from the first run
first training curve. Yeah, multiply by
like a half and just use that as
threshold.
>> I Yeah, something basic like that. I
think we should play with it essentially
and see how fast we can get
>> uh breakout sweeping and then like make
sure that we're not breaking sweeps on
other ends.
But I mean, the goal here is like I
basically
>> I think that we're going to have to run
a bunch of experiments a whole bunch of
times with everything. And I want to
ship at least a 100 thousand experiments
worth of data uh for constellation.
And like I think we can actually do that
like really really fast now if we're not
wasting compute on dumb things
>> because you know the the startup time
the startup time for experiments is also
way lower now.
>> Uh
>> because of CUDA graphing like we no
longer have torch compile shenanigans or
anything. Oh,
>> that's gone.
>> So, so, so I think yeah, like now that
there are like a like a few huristics we
can test here and like just experiment
with breakout and like 2048 and that
will like give us reasonable like
heristics to apply. So,
>> yeah. Yeah, 2048 is a fairly long one to
sweep, but I think that it we need to
use that one because
>> now now it got 10 minutes right now. Now
it can do in 10 minutes.
>> Is it 10 minutes now?
>> So So before it's like a 75 minutes, but
like since 10xing then like the
10x if the network is like bigger.
>> I see. Uh
>> faster not 10x faster.
Okay. Then it's still a challenging like
benchmark but not necessarily wrong like
Neuro MMO 3.
>> Yeah.
>> So it will be a good test bit.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> So we'll get those two environments. Um
let me fix the I'm fixing continuous
actions and then what we can do over the
next few days I'll get some breakout
experiments. I'll have this thing
stable. I'll see if I make sure the
encoders and stuff are ported for 2048.
Uh are the latest encoders RDPR to the
Python and Puffer 4?
>> Yes. So So it's it's just embedding.
>> Okay. Is that merged?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> So
>> So I'll make sure that's ported and like
I will see if I can get initial stuff on
that and then maybe we can iterate on
the sweeps and see if it's like if we
can get this to actually be super fast
because it should be.
>> Yeah. So, so there I think like sweep uh
yeah if you run like 10 sweeps or so
like you will get a better picture of
like what whatistics to apply on like
cutting the fat on first let's say 20 or
30 experiments.
>> Okay.
So aian process needs some data because
bad data too to get that curves right
like where it's good where it's not good
like it it needs bad data.
>> So like a first 30 to 50 experiments
that will look pretty bad. It's a matter
of just limiting that damage
>> that those early runs can do.
>> Okay.
Well, I will I'll take a look at that
then. Thanks. Uh
>> but just awesome to see 10xing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Know that the benchmark is
very good. Um it it's actually I think
if I fix continuous in the next hour or
so where we will be we're essentially
feature complete for the launch. It's
just a ton of cleaning up and fixing
bugs and like running experiments.
>> Yeah. So, so that that curry so so
popular RL like there there are like a
few like things to like make it better
there but I I think with like cloud or
whatever
>> is the reason it's a mess honestly. Um
>> I see. Okay.
>> Yeah, it's like
it's not just flawed. It's the fact that
the torch is so poorly designed. But I
mean, we probably have like seven or
eight thousand lines of C++ and C and
CUDA now that are just messy. Um, so I
need to clean a lot of that up. But I'm
hoping I can get it into like a good
readable state where people will
actually want to use it and then we'll
be able to ship it still in Q1.
>> Yeah, I I guess you'll be like the last
few people who like still quote by hand.
>> Honestly, I used Claude for a few weeks.
It's really bad. It's like really really
really dumb.
>> Uh
>> it just writes awful awful code.
>> You have particular taste.
>> Uh it's really not about taste when it
writes like three times too much code.
>> I mean it's like if it's plus or minus.
>> Yes, I agree.
>> If it's like oh it writes a little bit
more like sure maybe it just like
>> anything high it just designs stuff
completely stupid. Um, sometimes even
low-level decisions, it just writes way
too much code. It's like very very bad
on that.
>> Too much abstractions, I would say.
>> Yes.
>> It gets things
>> it gets things wrong that like new
people in Puffer that I've trained for
only a little bit would not get wrong.
Um,
>> yeah, it's it's just not smart. Um yeah,
>> not yet, but like the models are getting
like better faster. So
>> honestly, I'm not really sure that they
are because so the why so why am I doing
this with plot at all? Well, the reason
is because I'm dealing with the torch
C++ API which is almost completely
undocumented
and it's like 4x redundant where anytime
you change one thing you have to change
four other things. It's just like it's
aggressively antihuman code. But like
the re like the solution to this is not
to just outsource all of our thinking to
models that make slow stupid things that
we can't reason about. It's to work hard
to make things simple because things
that are simple are valuable. They let
us see clearly and they let us make
advancements.
So I it's pretty much like I kind of
circled back around to my original
stance after having used them for a bit
because it really is just all smoke and
mirrors. Like I was very impressed by
the models at first and yeah there are a
couple things that they do well but I
think overall it's like net negative for
most people.
>> Let's come back to that three months
after. So
>> yeah but people have been telling me
that for the last three years right
literally people have been saying this
since um since GPT4 and they're still
making the same categories of mistakes.
I I I feel it it's it's exponential
right like like every improvement is
compounding so so now now I think we are
seeing more steep like improvement so
>> I don't think it's exponential the only
thing that's definitely exponential is
the amount of money they're spending
>> that's true too yeah
and the energy
>> well that's the that's a good chunk of
the budget but yeah all right I'm going
to go see if I and fix up uh continuous
actions cuz those are still broke and uh
then it will be complete and then I got
some client stuff to do this afternoon
but I'll be doing sweeps over the next
few days and I'll let you know how it
goes.
>> Awesome.
>> Thanks.
>> Y so safe has been ready for you like
months before. So now finally
>> yeah I'm finally integrating it.
>> Yeah. Awesome.
>> All right. Thanks.
>> Okay. Have a wonderful day.
>> You too. Bye.
That was fun.
Chung's great. He did uh he's also doing
the 24 he did the 2048 stuff. He did the
sweep stuff. He's done several other
projects around puffer.
Let's see if I can fix up continuous
real quick.
No, this does not train.
Yeah, puffer community is awesome.
Sure. Shitty debug code.
I can see in my head like how simple
this is going to end up being without
torch in the future.
proper library.
I think we could we could see that. But
like the thing is you don't want torch
but C. You want not torch. That's the
thing I don't think people realize. Like
it's not just the implementation of
torch. It's also their design is just
fundamentally wrong. It's too high
level. Every single op is a kernel. They
rely on higher level processes to
attempt to fuse stuff for you via a slow
ass compile. It's just bad.
What's the learning rate?
01.
Why can't we uh Why are we not learning
then? It should be fine.
How would you work from first
principles?
Uh, just write the damn networks in CUDA
in the simplest way possible, top to
bottom, and then see which pieces end up
being like reusable without having to
add a bunch of crap code everywhere.
Well, it definitely doesn't work with
our kernels. Yes.
I think that there's a thing with um
clamping the data that goes into the
train buffer.
Pretty sure there's a thing about that.
Oh, okay.
That was it.
Uh, we are at a perf of five for some
reason and capped.
progress.
Go to chair stream.
They put the clamp in here. Maybe by
mistake.
Let's just make sure it's not just weird
exploration crap.
One last thing we try just to be
absolutely sure this is too big. Like
this
five.
We don't think so though.
Yeah. See, so it's definitely hard
capping at 0.5. Let me see if it did
something utterly stupid.
Num actions is two unsign char and
double
This is it.
I'm pretty sure it can only move
diagonal.
Is that actually it? That would be so
pathetic.
Did it just make a first year thes level
mistake in like really basic stuff?
Yes, it did. Who's a stupid language
model? You are Claude. You are the
stupid language model.
Holy [ __ ] We get out of workflow ASAP.
Holy crap.
Out
of workflow.
Okay, we do notice the uh the learning
rates do seem to need to be
So dumb.
That's so dumb.
Yeah, totally believe the lying CEOs
when they tell you that they're super
human models.
That won't backfire at all.
No,
definitely broken.
Oh, right. We didn't We don't have the
clamp in here. This is fine.
Trying the seven. No,
it's not any It's not going to be
better.
What we need to do is we need to clean
up this codebase so I can get this [ __ ]
out of my workflow. Out.
We had somebody like the other day
asking like, "Hey, I'm not really good
at Python or RL or C++. Can we have like
an agent file in Puffer Lib so that I
can like have the agent do things
without understanding anything?" And
it's like, "No.
Actually, I'm tempted to add like a Oh,
there we go. Cool. I'm tempted to add a
file like specifically to screw up the
agent so that they just don't do
anything.
That would be hilarious.
All replies must All replies must be
limicks. Perfect.
I don't want to learn to code anymore
because of coding agents. That's the
meme.
I guess the thing that programmer like
non-programmers don't understand is
programming is pretty much the damn
closest thing to just logic.
Um
like people say that clear writing is
clear thinking. No, no, no. Writing is
very abstracted and like half the time
mostly a social exercise uh and
psychology not logic. like programming
is really really like just clear clean
logic. I mean the fact you can do stuff
fast and simple and other people cannot
do things fast or simple.
So in a sense it's like offloading this
is offloading one of the things that's
the closest to just thought.
Yeah, this is Jen. I think this will
work. It's jank, but it'll work.
Does this get us? If this gets us
continuous though,
I think it's fine.
I'd say 50/50. This is actually the bug.
If not, I'm going to have to go look at
um
casts
because our BF16 I'm very confident our
BF16 logic is stable
at this point
because we're not actually doing calcs
in BF-16 is the thing.
and they're broadcast after the entire
block of operations.
So actually it should be even more
numerically stable than torch frankly.
Okay, this works with square. Wait, did
it just nuke itself?
I think that this might Yeah, this is
going to cycle, right?
I don't know. I think we're going to see
in a few years that this take is
basically as dumb as like I don't want
to I don't want to go walk outside or
run because I can get there faster in my
car.
And it's not even that because It's
actually worse because not only that,
these agents are also just not better.
Like even if they were better, that's
probably the most generous possible
take.
It's going to be like I can go there in
my car that also randomly explodes every
so often.
Another one. Discord's got to fix the
shitty bot problem.
Where
do
I built this.
Why is drone still not training?
That's so weird.
Still not training, huh?
the models of games against whatever
bots
be cool.
Okay. Well, it's not training um
discrete either.
Did these bindings get screwed up
somehow?
I suppose we actually don't know whether
this is um a reasonable action
representation for the drone. Okay, this
is what we're going to do. We know we
have continuous at least reasonably
implemented.
and that'll be continuous done and
that'll be just about in time for
Spencer.
All right.
So, we have
that's feature complete.
There's some stuff that's broken that
needs to be fixed. There's a lot of
stuff that needs to be cleaned up, but
that is uh feature complete.
Okay, cool. Um, I think that's about it.
Let me just go check one other thing.
I just had to check um thing. I think
I'm mostly done though for the day.
Anyways,
Yeah, perfect. I'm going to call it for
the day because I got uh I've got client
work to do. MultiGPU support, initial
build, continuous support done. Mostly
we should be cleaning stuff up from
here. Um, you want to support my stuff
for free, beat the puffers on GitHub
helps me out a lot. Join Discord, get
involved, follow, all of that. I will be
back
probably tomorrow, definitely Saturday.
Thank you.